---
layout: post
title: My own way of blogging (or why I prefer GitHub Pages over Tumblr & Wordpress)
permalink: My-own-way-of-blogging
---

**YES, I KNOW I'VE DISAPPEARED.**

*I'm sorry.*

But since my last post (yeah, the one I did half a year ago) I've realized how much of a pain in the ass is working with Markdown + embedded code in Tumblr, which was where I did my other (few) posts. Before joining Tumblr, I realized how much of a pain in the ass was creating a blog in Wordpress or Blogspot.

But it's not about the tools, it's about me.

I feel weird writing on a *WYSIWYG* editor, I don't need any of those shiny buttons and gorgeus menus. **I just wanna write.** That's why I love [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/), and that's why I love [GitHub Pages](http://pages.github.com/).

So I took what it seemed the right decision to me, I decided to use Jekyll + GitHub as my current blogging engine, and working on a clutter-free design of my blog (which still is under construction), I decided to keep things simple and manage my blog just like I manage my projects: with Sublime Text and Git.

Right now the fact of publishing via a *git push* feels awesome, and trying to build this simple blog structure is serving me as a toy project for learning quite a few chops at the *big* *BIG* ***BIG*** HTML + CSS (and responsive) world.

I'm enjoying this process of learning, and I wanted to share this feeling with you. I know, I still have to do part two (and maybe even three) of that Backbone + Coffeescript + Jasmine application, but having the little time I have right know, this change of style has been kinda refreshing and relaxing to me.

There's still lots things to do, but nothing is better than sharing with you each little step I make.